WEBVTT

1
00:04:18.640 --> 00:04:19.480
Will Corcoran: Daryl.

2
00:04:26.360 --> 00:04:27.040
Katya: Hello.

3
00:04:46.580 --> 00:04:49.899
Will Corcoran: Alright. As noted in the chat, a little…

4
00:04:50.030 --> 00:04:57.710
Will Corcoran: time boxed today, so let's just jump in with the client updates, Zoom team.

5
00:05:03.650 --> 00:05:05.229
Gajinder Singh: Hi, Will, hello, everyone.

6
00:05:05.440 --> 00:05:15.039
Gajinder Singh: Yeah, so we have been, working on DevNet 3 interop with other clients, resolving the issues that we are currently seeing.

7
00:05:15.140 --> 00:05:19.899
Gajinder Singh: And basically reviewing the PR. Apart from that, we have also…

8
00:05:19.980 --> 00:05:35.590
Gajinder Singh: worked on improving the performance of our Zoom node by caching some of the stuff for running straight transitions, and there are some of the PRs that we are sort of reviewing and

9
00:05:35.690 --> 00:05:37.120
Gajinder Singh: Working on that end.

10
00:05:37.230 --> 00:05:41.500
Gajinder Singh: As well as a little bit of…

11
00:05:41.630 --> 00:05:49.210
Gajinder Singh: of PR work on making sure that checkpoint sync, scenarios are, covered, and…

12
00:05:49.400 --> 00:05:52.099
Gajinder Singh: So when the vendors,

13
00:05:52.530 --> 00:06:01.950
Gajinder Singh: when the note comes back up using Checkpoint Sync, it is able to participate back in the network, so we… we are… we have… we were seeing some issues regarding that, and…

14
00:06:02.130 --> 00:06:06.660
Gajinder Singh: We are still working on that, and hopefully we'll have resolution.

15
00:06:06.780 --> 00:06:14.149
Gajinder Singh: Soon, Oh… And, for DevNet 4, I think, we…

16
00:06:14.320 --> 00:06:17.600
Gajinder Singh: So Anchil has looked into…

17
00:06:17.770 --> 00:06:22.769
Gajinder Singh: The… yeah, Anshar was looking into the API, that Emil provided.

18
00:06:22.970 --> 00:06:26.030
Gajinder Singh: And, we will start the DevNet for…

19
00:06:26.130 --> 00:06:29.449
Gajinder Singh: Spec work, soon, by the end of this week.

20
00:06:33.130 --> 00:06:36.620
Will Corcoran: Very exciting. Thanks, Erigon. Ring team.

21
00:06:36.950 --> 00:06:50.559
Shariq Naiyer: Sweet, sweet. So we, we got up to, up to spec and up to, other… we got, we got our client running against other clients for DevNet 3, so on, on, some of Partha's, tests.

22
00:06:50.560 --> 00:07:07.529
Shariq Naiyer: 5 clients were able to interop. Locally, I've tested against, like, 3 clients, and, and things seem to work out fine. We… beyond… beyond FNet 3, we were working on improving our sinker, and, like, making it more reliable.

23
00:07:07.530 --> 00:07:19.959
Shariq Naiyer: And… and for… for checkpoint sync, there was an issue with HTTPS. We just had to swap out a Rust library, so, I think… I think Checkpoint Sync should work fine with Erigon as well now.

24
00:07:19.960 --> 00:07:32.799
Shariq Naiyer: And, and yeah, we're ready to start, long-term… long-run DevNets on DevNet 3, and, and, and we're ready to start work on DevNet 4, as, yeah, starting this week.

25
00:07:36.270 --> 00:07:37.860
Will Corcoran: Brilliant. Thanks, Sharik.

26
00:07:38.220 --> 00:07:39.380
Will Corcoran: Clinton.

27
00:07:43.170 --> 00:07:48.389
Will Corcoran: And Camille might still be on the road. Lanterns?

28
00:07:49.400 --> 00:07:59.069
Mihir Faujdar: Yep. Thanks, Will. Hi, everyone. So yeah, based on Paza's testing, Lantern was able to achieve interop with other clients for DevNet 3.

29
00:07:59.220 --> 00:08:05.299
Mihir Faujdar: And basically, what I'm currently doing now is, so, I've been running…

30
00:08:05.420 --> 00:08:13.469
Mihir Faujdar: lean quick start locally on a remote server for DevNet2, and then have been seeing,

31
00:08:13.620 --> 00:08:31.209
Mihir Faujdar: issues where, like, after slot 30,000, it could be any arbitrary slot, basically, functionality would break, so I've just been trying to debug issues there. So, I'm basically going to be bringing those fixes into DevNet3 branch, and then,

32
00:08:31.910 --> 00:08:39.469
Mihir Faujdar: And then basically release a new, image, for demo 3. But yeah, that's more update. Thanks.

33
00:08:42.870 --> 00:08:45.180
Will Corcoran: Thanks, Mihir. Eth Lambda.

34
00:08:46.840 --> 00:08:47.450
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: Aye.

35
00:08:48.700 --> 00:08:52.309
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: From our side, we were focusing on DevNet 3,

36
00:08:52.530 --> 00:09:09.350
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: Through the week, this week. We fixed the small issue, the interoperability of positive messages, so we have, local dev nets working with, first with two Zoom clients and two East Lambdas.

37
00:09:09.690 --> 00:09:14.890
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: And then, we, have more… More clients working together.

38
00:09:15.060 --> 00:09:20.299
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: We added a attestation committee account CLI parameter.

39
00:09:20.650 --> 00:09:24.150
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: Previously, it was hardcoding.

40
00:09:24.430 --> 00:09:44.299
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: And we were working on some kind of DevX, or UX, or tooling. We showed logs, tracing logs, of the chain, of the fork choice. We took the idea from Zim client.

41
00:09:44.590 --> 00:09:49.840
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: doing this kind of ASCII art in the logs, in the console.

42
00:09:50.310 --> 00:09:53.310
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: And we took that idea and ported it to…

43
00:09:53.850 --> 00:10:05.229
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: an HTML page, so we develop an HTML page with a live view of the status of the chain.

44
00:10:05.740 --> 00:10:07.920
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: on the last 2 to 5 block.

45
00:10:08.450 --> 00:10:12.410
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: We can share that on the Telegram chat if you want.

46
00:10:13.000 --> 00:10:17.159
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: So… That's huge.

47
00:10:17.390 --> 00:10:21.880
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: And we… Based on the… on the protocols.

48
00:10:22.890 --> 00:10:23.720
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: Thank you.

49
00:10:25.580 --> 00:10:26.500
Will Corcoran: Thanks, Pablo.

50
00:10:26.700 --> 00:10:28.230
Will Corcoran: Again, Tim.

51
00:10:33.780 --> 00:10:44.900
Shaaibu Suleiman: Yeah, hello, hello, hello. Yeah, so we've completed work, on DevNets, one. We should have raised, a PR, but then…

52
00:10:45.020 --> 00:11:00.330
Shaaibu Suleiman: Leanquick Start is not actively supporting, DevNet1 for now, so we had to, test locally. We did the multi, multi-client interrupt, test locally.

53
00:11:00.480 --> 00:11:04.379
Shaaibu Suleiman: Basically. And, for now, we're actually looking fine.

54
00:11:05.170 --> 00:11:09.060
Shaaibu Suleiman: With the multi-client, interrupt test, we did.

55
00:11:09.780 --> 00:11:16.609
Shaaibu Suleiman: For now, we're actually, working on seeing how we can catch up with other teams.

56
00:11:16.990 --> 00:11:34.240
Shaaibu Suleiman: On DevNet3, so that, you know, we would also partake in, the multi, client, interrupt test, at least for DevNet3, as soon as possible. So, basically, that's it from our end, Gene.

57
00:11:34.720 --> 00:11:35.470
Shaaibu Suleiman: F.

58
00:11:37.770 --> 00:11:40.819
Will Corcoran: Thank you Grandine.

59
00:11:42.190 --> 00:11:51.790
saulius: Hello, so we are still working on DevNet 3, and there is still some work done until we can interrupt.

60
00:11:57.090 --> 00:11:57.730
Will Corcoran: Beautiful.

61
00:11:58.070 --> 00:12:06.300
Will Corcoran: Final call for client teams. I don't think I see Lighthouse or Nimbus representatives.

62
00:12:13.280 --> 00:12:21.230
Will Corcoran: Great. Cool, so moving on to specifications… And… research.

63
00:12:21.430 --> 00:12:26.860
Will Corcoran: One thing I'll… go ahead, Devon.

64
00:12:26.860 --> 00:12:28.610
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, yeah, please go ahead.

65
00:12:28.610 --> 00:12:37.840
Will Corcoran: Oh, no, I was just gonna ask if, there was anyone starting a high-level dock for DevNet 4, and,

66
00:12:38.760 --> 00:12:40.569
Will Corcoran: If that was something that…

67
00:12:41.570 --> 00:12:46.979
Gajinder Singh: So, I think Joel is working on it, and I'll ask him to start a high-level doc on DevNet 4.

68
00:12:47.820 --> 00:13:01.009
Will Corcoran: Great. And if… when they do that, there's the overall PM doc that just… it's a markdown that kind of cross-coordinates the high-level docs, if they could also update that. Thanks.

69
00:13:01.170 --> 00:13:02.789
Will Corcoran: Sorry, go ahead, Tamal.

70
00:13:03.940 --> 00:13:09.920
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, no, I was just going to say that, about the spec,

71
00:13:10.550 --> 00:13:26.180
Thomas Coratger: I have worked, like, a bit on this last week, in order to make some tests, some clarification, and some simplification for the lean client… lean spec client to be ready for interop.

72
00:13:26.430 --> 00:13:33.979
Thomas Coratger: From my local test that I made with LeanSpec and LeanSpec, both interoping together.

73
00:13:34.640 --> 00:13:48.989
Thomas Coratger: I obtained pretty encouraging results, but I wanted, like, you as client team to check what this gives with your client and integration, because I think that you are much more experienced than me on every single day to

74
00:13:49.250 --> 00:13:54.000
Thomas Coratger: interrupt, DevOps, and then Quick Start in integration, so…

75
00:13:54.240 --> 00:14:10.509
Thomas Coratger: please check and let me know if there are some bugs. I am pretty sure that we will find some… some bugs, but I have tried to clarify as much as possible the… the spec and the minimal client. I have added some test vectors for…

76
00:14:10.510 --> 00:14:16.649
Thomas Coratger: Example, on every single lady to gossip sub, to the sink.

77
00:14:16.780 --> 00:14:24.640
Thomas Coratger: And all of this to try, at least to, to discover, like, preliminary bugs that could happen.

78
00:14:25.070 --> 00:14:37.679
Thomas Coratger: I have taken some test vectors from Rust's known implementation, sometimes from EIPs, or for existing specifications.

79
00:14:37.900 --> 00:14:46.100
Thomas Coratger: In order to make things as clear as possible and avoid, in the future, potential bugs.

80
00:14:46.410 --> 00:15:03.350
Thomas Coratger: So that is done. I didn't want to push much more on this front, since I think that we are, at least in the spec, DevNet3 ready, and so that you can check.

81
00:15:03.550 --> 00:15:12.969
Thomas Coratger: clients. Also, I think that before you do the interop, as mentioned by, Partha in,

82
00:15:13.130 --> 00:15:17.710
Thomas Coratger: In the chats, we have to be in agreement

83
00:15:18.020 --> 00:15:31.310
Thomas Coratger: all together on the SSD container for the signatures. Otherwise, you will have a problem while interoping with the lean spec, because you will not serialize and deserialize in the same way.

84
00:15:31.490 --> 00:15:44.589
Thomas Coratger: So yeah, that's it. On the other side, we have worked this week much more on the crypto sides of things, because after the paper that has been published.

85
00:15:44.720 --> 00:15:47.600
Thomas Coratger: last week, I think, about Poseidon 2.

86
00:15:47.830 --> 00:16:06.299
Thomas Coratger: improvements of attacks. We have tried to think a bit more, even if we are not panicking at all. We are trying to think a bit more on potential alternatives, for example, Poseidon 1 instead of post-Aidon 2, and other potential hash functions, so we are

87
00:16:06.520 --> 00:16:23.200
Thomas Coratger: Trying to work a bit more on the Plonk E3 framework in order to integrate missing stuff, to be able to benchmark potential hash functions as fallbacks, and have solutions in case in the future, Poseidon 2 is finally broken.

88
00:16:23.520 --> 00:16:43.170
Thomas Coratger: So that is one thing, and also, Emi will talk about this more after, but, related to LinVM, we have tried to integrate also, potential elements of LinVM, inside, Plonk E3 to make in

89
00:16:43.190 --> 00:16:55.160
Thomas Coratger: the future, the integration of LeanVM via Plum K3, much easier than it could be right now. So, yeah, please gaze in there, and then I guess that email will have follow-up stuff, yeah.

90
00:16:57.000 --> 00:17:09.869
Gajinder Singh: Yeah, I just wanted to circle back on the SSD container for the signatures, so I would like to know what is your thinking, that why should we have the SSD container for signatures in terms of,

91
00:17:10.000 --> 00:17:19.099
Gajinder Singh: You know, in terms of it being very neat, definitely it makes sense that we can see what the signatures are made of.

92
00:17:19.300 --> 00:17:23.969
Gajinder Singh: But does… a shared client need to, sort of, know

93
00:17:24.079 --> 00:17:28.710
Gajinder Singh: What the structure of the signature is, and is it useful in any way, or…

94
00:17:29.360 --> 00:17:35.190
Gajinder Singh: It is just, to basically make things easy, because at least in,

95
00:17:35.690 --> 00:17:40.579
Gajinder Singh: I don't… I don't think we… we still need to SSZ root it.

96
00:17:40.680 --> 00:17:42.810
Gajinder Singh: So that won't be the problem.

97
00:17:43.090 --> 00:17:49.439
Gajinder Singh: But, okay, we might… I don't think we need to SSC root it, right?

98
00:17:55.270 --> 00:17:59.999
Mihir Faujdar: Yeah, so I think, at the moment, we're not hashing it, so it's not a problem.

99
00:18:00.320 --> 00:18:07.439
Mihir Faujdar: Yeah. But it might, we might need it. I'm not sure if we might need to do it in the future, but I'll let Thomas…

100
00:18:07.950 --> 00:18:12.339
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, I think that for now, this is not a problem, but maybe in the future.

101
00:18:13.220 --> 00:18:16.690
Thomas Coratger: Like, you can try, it depends.

102
00:18:18.380 --> 00:18:23.450
Thomas Coratger: let me think… I think that in some potential scenarios.

103
00:18:27.350 --> 00:18:29.800
Thomas Coratger: No, I think that for now, this is not a problem.

104
00:18:33.080 --> 00:18:42.979
Gajinder Singh: So, I mean, I don't see, the need for SSD routing, the signature ever arriving, but yes, I mean, even for serialization and decentralization.

105
00:18:43.360 --> 00:18:48.779
Gajinder Singh: Even though it is not happening at the underlying signature layer, but…

106
00:18:49.250 --> 00:18:52.180
Gajinder Singh: Signature library layer, but now at this layer.

107
00:18:52.350 --> 00:18:56.820
Gajinder Singh: I'm not sure whether there are any pitfalls for it or not, but…

108
00:18:57.680 --> 00:19:03.919
Gajinder Singh: But if there is a reasoning that you had to do this, definitely, I would like to know that.

109
00:19:06.020 --> 00:19:17.209
Thomas Coratger: No, no precise thing. I think that this is okay. This is just related to this message that I left in the DivNet3 group.

110
00:19:18.050 --> 00:19:25.610
Thomas Coratger: it was just because I think that at least what I have checked in Rim, but I guess this is the same for the other clients.

111
00:19:25.890 --> 00:19:34.509
Thomas Coratger: like, you force the encoding to be 3112 bytes.

112
00:19:36.090 --> 00:19:36.930
Thomas Coratger: Right?

113
00:19:39.800 --> 00:19:45.469
Thomas Coratger: I guess that this is it. You… you… for the signature…

114
00:19:45.470 --> 00:19:52.009
Gajinder Singh: I mean, the message says that, basically calculating hashtree root of the signature, but why do we need that hashtree root?

115
00:19:57.720 --> 00:20:02.640
Thomas Coratger: No, I, I… No, I don't think that you need it.

116
00:20:02.950 --> 00:20:05.910
Thomas Coratger: Because you mean that this,

117
00:20:06.680 --> 00:20:13.110
Thomas Coratger: the signatures in your case, already arise as bytes. This is what you mean, right?

118
00:20:14.260 --> 00:20:15.080
Gajinder Singh: Right.

119
00:20:15.390 --> 00:20:22.380
Thomas Coratger: So, you mean you never need to ask reroute the signature, because this is already done on your behalf, right?

120
00:20:23.520 --> 00:20:35.260
Gajinder Singh: Correct, and basically, you know, since we don't even have signatures in attestations inside the block, because that is what, what a normal beacon block would have, they would have

121
00:20:35.380 --> 00:20:47.890
Gajinder Singh: attestation, which had aggregated signatures inside the blog itself, but we sort of separated them out, and our signature container carries all the signatures that would be in the block, as well as

122
00:20:48.080 --> 00:21:02.450
Gajinder Singh: the proposer signature for the test station that they have, which would then basically change into the full block signature when we have a recursive signature. But what I'm saying is that, right now, I don't think we are hashtrooting signature in any way.

123
00:21:02.860 --> 00:21:05.800
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, yeah, that is a possibility, yeah.

124
00:21:08.240 --> 00:21:13.469
Thomas Coratger: Yeah. No, yeah, yeah, yeah, I see your point, yeah, I agree. This should not be a problem then.

125
00:21:15.210 --> 00:21:19.670
Gajinder Singh: Yeah, so even without SSC container implementation, we should be on the same page, right?

126
00:21:19.800 --> 00:21:23.050
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, I think so. For now, I think so, yeah.

127
00:21:27.450 --> 00:21:28.740
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, father.

128
00:21:29.480 --> 00:21:47.049
Parthasarathy Ramanujam: So yeah, if that's the case, then I presume we can test interop with LeanSpec Node. I just had one question for you, Thomas. So right now, I have the Docker under my personal registry for LeanSpec Node. Is there a particular registry you would, prefer?

129
00:21:47.060 --> 00:21:55.750
Parthasarathy Ramanujam: I can include that as a separate PR to LeanSpec to publish Docker images every time there's a merge to master or main branch.

130
00:21:56.660 --> 00:21:58.630
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, yeah, that sounds good, yeah.

131
00:21:59.390 --> 00:22:01.020
Parthasarathy Ramanujam: Okay, I'll do that.

132
00:22:05.650 --> 00:22:15.799
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, Emil, please, if you have anything related. If anyone has something to add on this part, please feel free to do so. Otherwise, like, Emil, feel free to…

133
00:22:16.540 --> 00:22:21.610
Thomas Coratger: speak about your advancement for LeanVM?

134
00:22:22.930 --> 00:22:32.340
T. Wambsgans: Hi, yeah, thanks. I slightly modified the ISA and the compiler, and those small modifications.

135
00:22:32.570 --> 00:22:38.990
T. Wambsgans: improved by about 30%, both XMSS and recursion performance, which is nice.

136
00:22:39.160 --> 00:22:40.080
T. Wambsgans: That's it.

137
00:22:48.500 --> 00:23:08.489
Anshal: So, I have one small doubt around it. So, I was looking into the code, and I saw that now we have, in the XSMS aggregate container, we already provide, like, the serialized, deserialization third. So, going forward, we'll be using that, to encode and decode, instead of, like, SSE serialization, right?

138
00:23:10.430 --> 00:23:15.910
T. Wambsgans: You, you mean the… the serialize and the serialized method in the linear TC repo?

139
00:23:16.650 --> 00:23:17.190
Anshal: Yeah.

140
00:23:17.650 --> 00:23:28.320
T. Wambsgans: I think I just, put it, but it is not particularly intended for use. I guess you can totally use other encoding. I think all the fields…

141
00:23:28.430 --> 00:23:35.690
T. Wambsgans: industries are public, so you should be able to do whatever you want to encode and decode it, I guess.

142
00:23:36.860 --> 00:23:38.490
Anshal: Yeah, so,

143
00:23:39.100 --> 00:23:47.989
Anshal: Yeah, that is possible, but, what is, like, recommended? Because I see that you are, decompressing it as well, so,

144
00:23:48.120 --> 00:23:53.889
Anshal: In my opinion, like, it's a good idea to use it as is, but,

145
00:23:54.930 --> 00:24:04.439
Anshal: if there's any benefit of using SSE encoding instead of using the default encoding that is basically provided within the container itself.

146
00:24:06.850 --> 00:24:15.660
T. Wambsgans: the default encoding should work. Honestly, I'm not an expert of encoding, so I don't know, but I think the one which is provided in Motisig should be…

147
00:24:15.960 --> 00:24:25.299
T. Wambsgans: Close to, like, at least not… like, maybe, 95% from optimal, probably.

148
00:24:29.440 --> 00:24:30.040
Anshal: Okay.

149
00:24:30.860 --> 00:24:31.620
Anshal: So…

150
00:24:33.050 --> 00:24:39.929
Anshal: I'll just post about it on the group itself for the discussion, so that others can also, like, once go through

151
00:24:40.190 --> 00:24:59.399
Anshal: the details, and then comment about it. I believe, like, rest of the people aren't mostly aware about it. About, like, the other thing that I had mentioned in the, channel itself. So, you mentioned that we now have, ZK-friendly encoding, so we can have the

152
00:24:59.460 --> 00:25:03.640
Anshal: branch with LeanSig as well. So, like.

153
00:25:03.770 --> 00:25:17.419
Anshal: I think… will we, like, wait for that to be implemented completely, or we'll have, like, a temporary branch for DevNet 4, something similar to what we did for DevNet 2 in the Lean Multisig repo?

154
00:25:17.640 --> 00:25:24.790
T. Wambsgans: I believe first we would need to have the ZK-friendly encoding implemented in the LeanSig repository.

155
00:25:25.060 --> 00:25:36.169
T. Wambsgans: I don't know if Benedict is here, I don't know, like, but… and when, when… Yeah, perfect, hi. And if, this is, like.

156
00:25:36.270 --> 00:25:48.710
T. Wambsgans: I would also have to see with Benedict which encoding is used, but theoretically, once this is done, it should be much easier to…

157
00:25:49.150 --> 00:25:54.910
T. Wambsgans: snackify the encoding, and I guess the…

158
00:25:55.440 --> 00:26:03.980
T. Wambsgans: Yeah, probably a dedicated branch, DevNet4, as previously, would be the easiest way to proceed, yeah.

159
00:26:04.980 --> 00:26:08.180
Benedikt Wagner: Yeah, I mean, there's an issue in the LeanSig…

160
00:26:08.810 --> 00:26:17.609
Benedikt Wagner: repository to implement the encoding from the paper. I think it should not be that hard, so if anyone wants to do it.

161
00:26:17.780 --> 00:26:24.890
Benedikt Wagner: I'm happy to… to review a PR, but I'm not sure if I have the time to do it in this week or next week.

162
00:26:27.390 --> 00:26:28.910
T. Wambsgans: Yeah, okay, alright.

163
00:26:29.560 --> 00:26:33.589
Benedikt Wagner: But yeah, if… I mean, we can also sync, offline.

164
00:26:33.590 --> 00:26:47.030
T. Wambsgans: Yeah, okay. And just to be sure, it's, what you have in mind to use is not top of the hypercube encoding, just basically close to the average target sum, right?

165
00:26:47.660 --> 00:26:50.679
Benedikt Wagner: Yeah, I think this is the one that we should try first.

166
00:26:50.680 --> 00:26:52.350
T. Wambsgans: Yeah, and we basically…

167
00:26:52.350 --> 00:26:56.770
Benedikt Wagner: I don't think the complexity of the other encoding is worth it.

168
00:26:56.970 --> 00:27:12.169
T. Wambsgans: Okay, and so basically, you decompose each color bears, and you do rejection sampling when it's not, like, the… there is an edge case, and you do rejection sampling, and consequence… like, as a consequence, it becomes uniform, and that's.

169
00:27:12.170 --> 00:27:14.229
Benedikt Wagner: Yeah, right. Okay, nothing.

170
00:27:14.230 --> 00:27:14.770
T. Wambsgans: Okay.

171
00:27:15.090 --> 00:27:17.919
T. Wambsgans: Should be not… okay, should be… I mean, I can…

172
00:27:17.920 --> 00:27:27.710
Benedikt Wagner: I can link you to the section in the paper, but it should just be a new message hash, like, a new implementation of the message hash trait, and then combine it with the target sum.

173
00:27:27.990 --> 00:27:34.470
T. Wambsgans: the good news is that that's basically the encoding that is used on the main branch of Lin Mutistic, so…

174
00:27:34.700 --> 00:27:39.280
T. Wambsgans: at least in minimal TCG, it would be very easy to use it. Perfect.

175
00:27:50.010 --> 00:28:07.990
Anshal: Okay, I was just bringing it up because I thought, like, if it would have taken a longer time, then we'll have to think about it, because I should be done with the Remnant 4 speccing by end of this week, but I think, like, it is not a lot of work, so we should be able to, like.

176
00:28:08.000 --> 00:28:10.360
Anshal: move forward with the DevNet 4.

177
00:28:10.360 --> 00:28:28.779
T. Wambsgans: If at some point I can find some time, I will definitely try to implement it to make a pair in LeanSig. I cannot guarantee you it will be done in the coming days because of the positon stuff and other things, but I will try to do it as soon as I can find some time. Yes.

178
00:28:29.020 --> 00:28:41.999
Anshal: Yeah, yeah, I don't need it right away. I'll ping you if I have some doubts as such, but for the specing part, I don't need it anyway. I just need the API, which is already finalized. So, I'm good on that.

179
00:28:42.380 --> 00:28:43.420
T. Wambsgans: Perfect, okay.

180
00:28:56.050 --> 00:29:01.730
Will Corcoran: Excellent. Any other spec research-related questions, topics?

181
00:29:08.680 --> 00:29:14.780
Will Corcoran: Metrics, observability, anything that you wanted to, flag for this week?

182
00:29:15.660 --> 00:29:28.640
Katya: Yes, hello, everyone. So, this week I've been testing, Checkpoint Sync, and for 5 clients, it went well, so I just shared some tiny issues in the chat.

183
00:29:28.670 --> 00:29:52.060
Katya: The latest Lantern update, updated image, also works, and after the call, I will share with the Lambda team what should be fixed, just, just a small, tiny fix. Regarding DevNet 3 metrics, so I updated, the dashboards for DevNet 2, so I merged them into one dashboard, and will update LinkWix

184
00:29:52.060 --> 00:29:53.959
Katya: Start soon, this week.

185
00:29:54.100 --> 00:30:09.410
Katya: Regarding Demet 3, metrics, so I'm working on Demet 3 dashboards right now, and, probably, hopefully today, I will merge, the whole PR, if there are no comments on the, on this.

186
00:30:09.550 --> 00:30:11.689
Katya: And we'll share in the tooling chat.

187
00:30:12.800 --> 00:30:15.009
Katya: That's it for my side, thank you.

188
00:30:20.440 --> 00:30:29.269
Katya: So, DevNet 3 metrics will be integrated into the dashboard in DeanQuick Star, so when we build it, you can check on the go.

189
00:30:30.490 --> 00:30:35.899
Katya: But it will be a little bit blinded, so let me know if something's wrong. Thank you.

190
00:30:48.750 --> 00:30:52.639
Will Corcoran: Excellent. Any other open discussion topics?

191
00:31:05.790 --> 00:31:11.420
Will Corcoran: On a fun note, I hope to share the schedule for Pectra.

192
00:31:11.840 --> 00:31:17.220
Will Corcoran: Later this week, so I'll drop that in the PQ channel as a little preview.

193
00:31:24.740 --> 00:31:25.670
Will Corcoran: Okay.

194
00:31:25.800 --> 00:31:27.610
Will Corcoran: Wonderful.

195
00:31:28.100 --> 00:31:30.709
Will Corcoran: Quick, efficient call. Appreciate it.

196
00:31:33.090 --> 00:31:34.350
Thomas Coratger: Thanks.

197
00:31:34.350 --> 00:31:35.429
Shariq Naiyer: Thank y'all.

198
00:31:36.150 --> 00:31:36.850
Katya: cure alongside.

199
00:31:37.080 --> 00:31:37.730
T. Wambsgans: Alright, thanks.

200
00:31:37.730 --> 00:31:38.619
Pablo Deymo | Lambda: Thank you for my…

201
00:31:39.050 --> 00:31:39.700
KaydenML: Thank you.

