00:03:15	Potuz:	gm
00:03:29	0xTylerHolmes:	Gmgm
00:03:32	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	gm
00:03:56	Mehdi Aouadi:	gm
00:04:06	Felix (Geth):	gm
00:04:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	link to agenda: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1931
00:05:04	Barnabas:	https://dora.blob-devnet-0.ethpandaops.io/
00:05:30	Barnabas:	https://dora.bal-devnet-2.ethpandaops.io
00:06:11	Barnabas:	https://dora.nft-devnet-10.ethpandaops.io
00:06:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "https://dora.nft-dev..."

good to see nfts living on in devnet form at least
00:06:35	Barnabas:	https://dora.perf-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io
00:06:41	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "good to see nfts liv..." with ğŸ˜…
00:06:43	felipe:	Reacted to "good to see nfts l..." with ğŸ˜…
00:06:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "good to see nfts liv..." with ğŸ˜…
00:07:01	Barnabas:	Reacted to "good to see nfts liv..." with ğŸ˜…
00:07:33	Barnabas:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/bal-devnet-3
00:08:46	Marius van der Wijden:	Whats the hardcoded value? @spencer
00:09:58	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://dora.nft-dev..."

gotta keep the memes alive
00:11:22	spencer:	At a 100M block gas limit, cost_per_state_byte = 1174.
00:11:50	spencer:	Replying to "At a 100M block ga..."

Lets add this to devnet-3 markdown.
00:13:23	Sina Mahmoodi:	https://notes.ethereum.org/j65MUa-KTB-hZ2kDrijS9A
00:14:46	Barnabas:	could you pls paste the pr?
00:15:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	the new pr: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/758
00:15:24	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/758
00:16:15	Felix (Geth):	client devs, please leave a comment on the PR to indicate your support and/or any changes you wish to see
00:17:04	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Thank you
00:18:16	Fabio Di Fabio:	that was one of my comment
00:18:58	Fabio Di Fabio:	we should have support for filtering
00:21:22	jochem-brouwer (Fairphone):	Which eip is the Lucid one?
00:21:39	Anders Elowsson:	The EIP is in draft stage, we will share over the weekend
00:21:52	XiaoHai67890:	Reacted to "The EIP is in draft ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ»
00:21:57	jochem-brouwer (Fairphone):	Replying to "The EIP is in draft ..." 

 Ok great! Thanks ğŸ˜Š
00:24:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Erigon: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1931#issuecomment-3961108850
00:24:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Besu: https://hackmd.io/@YwTR7izNSrCEQYKWdzdy_Q/Syutq86OZe
00:24:27	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Ok great! Thanks ğŸ˜Š" with ğŸ‘
00:25:06	Barnabas:	Geth: https://notes.ethereum.org/@lightclient/h-is-for-hardness
00:27:04	Anders Elowsson:	Geth - Could you elaborate on this from the Headliner note with reference to LUCID: 

â€œAll encrypted mempools we are aware of suffer from substantial metadata leakage like nonce, gas limit, etc. and this proposal is no different.â€ 

What kind of leakage are you referring to?
00:27:13	andrew (erigon):	Shutter is deployed on Gnosis Chain
00:27:27	Anders Elowsson:	How does metadata leak?
00:27:35	Potuz:	How does Lucid leak that? If anyone can send for others
00:28:01	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "How does Lucid leak ..."

It shouldnâ€™t
00:28:18	Barnabas:	Nethermind proposal: No EIPs for bogota ğŸ˜‚
00:28:20	nixo:	â€œno headliner for the ELâ€ is a valid option
00:28:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "â€œno headliner for th..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:28	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "â€œno headliner for th..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:29	Marius van der Wijden:	Just to note: my personal opinion is to not choose an EL headliner for Glamsterdam. I think all proposed eips are not ready yet
00:28:36	Luis Pinto | Besu:	There was another EIP alternative for new transaction signatures without Frame transactions
00:28:36	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "â€œno headliner for th..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:43	Barnabas:	Replying to "Just to note: my per..."

glamsterdam?
00:28:50	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "Just to note: my per..." with â•
00:28:53	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

we can go into that
00:28:54	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

Yeah it was by base
00:28:55	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Just to note: my per..." 

 Sorry H*
00:28:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Just to note: my per..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:29:02	Luis Bezzenberger:	Reacted to How does Lucid leak ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:29:04	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

it would be good to settle this early on
00:29:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "â€œno headliner for th..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:05	Luis Bezzenberger:	Reacted to It shouldnâ€™t with "ğŸ‘"
00:29:21	felix (eest):	Reacted to "â€œno headliner for..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:21	Luis Bezzenberger:	Reacted to Shutter is deployed ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:29:24	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Just to note: my per... with "â•"
00:29:30	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Reacted to "Just to note: my per..." with â•
00:29:59	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I also hope I am here :-)
00:30:25	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "I also hope I am her..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:30:37	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "I also hope I am her..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:31:11	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "I also hope I am her..."

Didnâ€™t know if Jen joined or not ğŸ™‚
00:31:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I also hope I am her..."

haha yes makes sense
00:31:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I also hope I am her..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:32:23	Barnabas:	since claude 4.6 ğŸ˜‚
00:32:29	Åukasz Rozmej:	Actually I have not-so optimistic AI summary, as soon as I want to do something more exploratory AI fails on its face immediately.It works decent for smaller bugs ect.
00:32:29	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "since claude 4.6 ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ”¥
00:32:30	lightclient:	Reacted to "since claude 4.6 ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ”¥
00:32:31	spencer:	Reacted to "since claude 4.6 ï¿½..." with ğŸ”¥
00:32:40	g1:	Reacted to "Actually I have no..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:41	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

From Geth side, we feel very strongly that Frame Transactions are superior because it moves the problem completely to user space. We also want to bundle this with account abstraction because we see it overdue that users move to contract based wallets as first class citizens.
00:32:46	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Actually I have not-..."

Everyone should read this: https://x.com/yq_acc/status/2026678055092236438
00:32:54	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "since claude 4.6 ğŸ˜‚"

amp is good
00:32:55	Guillaume:	Reacted to "Actually I have not-..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Nimbus EL: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1931#issuecomment-3966735519
00:33:04	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Actually I have not-... with "ğŸ‘"
00:33:10	spencer:	Reacted to "Everyone should re..." with ğŸ‘€
00:33:17	spencer:	Reacted to "Actually I have no..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:11	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "since claude 4.6 ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ”¥
00:34:54	nixo:	Reacted to "since claude 4.6 ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ”¥
00:35:18	felipe:	Reacted to "Actually I have no..." with ğŸ¤”
00:35:32	felipe:	Reacted to "since claude 4.6 ï¿½..." with ğŸ”¥
00:35:38	felipe:	Reacted to "Everyone should re..." with ğŸ‘€
00:35:49	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

Frame transaction becomes a nightmare for dev tooling. Feedback that we got is that is over abstracted and simpler solution would be a lot more powerful.
00:35:56	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "Frame transaction be..." with â•
00:36:17	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Reacted to "Frame transaction be..." with â•
00:36:25	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

It does make EVMs more complex contrary to what is the long term goal with lean
00:36:25	lightclient:	Doing nothing seems like a waste of 2026
00:36:27	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

I have one proposal for â€œAmsterdam txâ€ the I vibe coded, and additionally something like tempo tx is good example.
00:36:32	g1:	Reacted to "Doing nothing seem..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:34	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Doing nothing seems ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:34	CPerezz:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

Dev tooling can now also profit from AI significantly no? Dev tooling canâ€™t be a reason to not improve the protocol. Itâ€™s nonsense
00:36:36	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Reacted to "Doing nothing seems ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:45	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Actually I have not-..."

Agent performance correlates almost perfectly with how much novel, non-public knowledge the project demands. ClawNews (CRUD) was effortless. ETH2030 (ZK primitives with barely any public documentation) required line-by-line guidance for anything beyond boilerplate.
00:36:45	felipe:	Reacted to "Doing nothing seem..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:47	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

I don't understand why it makes dev tooling complicated
00:36:50	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Doing nothing seems ..."

It means doing more low-level EIPs like EIP-7999 for example though
00:36:59	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to It means doing more ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:37:05	CPerezz:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

We are discussing improvements to the protocol. We canâ€™t have it all
00:37:14	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Doing nothing seems ..."

â€œDoing nothingâ€ is essentially â€œship more EIPsâ€
00:37:23	Dustin:	Yeah it's not time-sensitive
00:37:26	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

I understand that it requires an initial investment from the wallet side to support it
00:37:28	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

Frame tx sigs are not severable fro the data, see my crypto agility slides from PQTS #1.  If we are going to aggregate sigs they shouldnâ€™t be in-line
00:37:39	lightclient:	Replying to "Doing nothing seems ..."

I donâ€™t see them as equivalent
00:38:04	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Replying to "Doing nothing seems ..."

Itâ€™s more non-headliners vs a controvertial headliner
00:38:06	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

Do we really need to give signature abstraction power to users? When PQ comes donâ€™t we just need a signature in the end? This might proliferate unsafe signature schemes
00:38:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we would still ship whatever EIPs are ready when FOCIL ships
00:38:21	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

They don't have to be attached to the tx. It is feasible to remove VERIFY frames from transactions when they go into the block.
00:38:30	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Replying to "Doing nothing seems ..."

We did it in Osaka, and that was well receieved.
00:38:38	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "we would still ship ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:41	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

@Luis Pinto | Besu let's discuss it in a separate call
00:38:52	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "There was another ..."

I don't think we will reach a conclusion here in Zoom comments
00:39:33	lightclient:	I think it is between Frame and â€œdo nothing"
00:39:46	Julian Ma:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

@Dragan Rakita could you elaborate a bit on the dev tooling point? Do you have some examples? What is the root cause that tempo tx wouldnâ€™t lead to the same problems?
00:40:07	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to I think it is betwee... with "ğŸ‘"
00:41:10	felix (eest):	Reacted to "we would still shi..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:32	Potuz:	How long before were the other proposals raised?
00:41:42	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

This is full feedback: Frame Transactions introduce more account abstraction galaxy braining by delegating complexity into frames. Developers don't want to work with defining "frames". Reduces complexity in the sense that we don't need a "bundler" (which imo is like 5% of the problem of current AA landscape), but then introduces a ton of complexity on devtooling layer (both contracts and app devtools like viem), and makes account orchestration flows super difficult to reason about. Generally think accounts donâ€™t need to be galaxy brained abstracted for 95% of real world users. Should enshrine native features for the 95% (a la. Tempo transactions), and escape hatch to account abstractions for the 5%.
00:42:15	Francesco:	Replying to "How long before were..."

Frame txs was recent but fairly advanced versions of native AA have existed for a long time and have received a lot of thought
00:42:37	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Frame txs was recent..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:38	Francesco:	Replying to "How long before were..."

Can we really say that weâ€™d know what weâ€™re getting into with encrypted mempools?
00:42:43	lightclient:	Reacted to "Can we really say th..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:43	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Frame txs was recent..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:56	Dustin:	For Nimbus, frame tx's are a fine fallback
00:44:05	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

Imo listing what frame tx does, and doing exactly this concrete implementation would  give better results.
00:44:12	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "How long before were..."

Perfectly valid point. I just said we do not leak metadata ğŸ™‚
00:45:00	Barnabas:	we still have 45 mins
00:45:05	lightclient:	Reacted to "we still have 45 min..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:06	Barnabas:	lets just talk about it now?
00:45:12	Julian Ma:	Replying to "There was another EI..."

Thanks @Dragan Rakita !
00:45:20	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to we still have 45 min... with "ğŸ‘"
00:45:42	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "we still have 45 min..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:44	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "lets just talk about..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we still have 45 min..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:51	Francesco:	If people really want to do a headliner but neither of these two (not saying this is the case, but if it comes to that), letâ€™s please not select something just for the sake of it? Would be better do either do nothing or reopen headliner proposals, not just choose something out of a list of two just because this is the process
00:46:00	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "If people really wan..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:05	Åukasz Rozmej:	potentially same breakout/Q&A for LUCID?
00:46:13	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "potentially same bre..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:18	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "If people really wanâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:46:19	Parithosh Jayanthi:	If people who make the decisions are here, then we can assume qorum
00:46:21	lightclient:	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

I donâ€™t feel like there is enough interest in LUCID
00:46:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

wut
00:46:34	Marius van der Wijden:	I think if there's nothing else, this is the most important thing to discuss
00:46:34	Parithosh Jayanthi:	i.e if we were fine with making the decision with this crew, we can do the FRAME discussion with the same group
00:46:36	Stefan Starflinger:	Replying to "potentially same breâ€¦"
Wur
00:46:40	lightclient:	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

Only 1 client
00:46:41	Stefan Starflinger:	Replying to "potentially same breâ€¦"
Wut*
00:46:44	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

i mean, not on this call right now, sure.
00:46:47	jochem-brouwer (Fairphone):	I feel like we should do an in depth discussion an announced breakout call
00:46:49	Marius van der Wijden:	Have discussion now, make decision next week
00:46:53	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "If people really wan..."

If there is something new proposed that is aligned with zkVM roadmap would make it priority for inclusion over current EIPs
00:47:00	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "i.e if we were fine ..." with â•
00:47:08	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Have discussion now,..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:15	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "If people really wan..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:21	lightclient:	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

What clients arenâ€™t on the call?
00:47:23	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

Erigon mentioned LUCID
00:47:37	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "If people really wan..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:44	lightclient:	But they chose Frame over LUCID
00:47:51	Francesco:	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_26_154444.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:47:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

we are also not opposed per se, just not convinced
00:47:54	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_26_154444.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:47:54	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_26_154444.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:47:58	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Reacted to "If people really wan..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:03	Blessing | web3creed:	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_..." with ğŸ¤£
00:48:03	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "potentially same breâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:48:10	jochem-brouwer (Fairphone):	Ah ok then we should use time remaining to discuss now, missed that this was all of agenda
00:48:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

nobody is proposing spending the rest of the call on LUCID.
00:48:11	lightclient:	Reacted to "Have discussion now,..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:12	Ishika:	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_..." with ğŸ¤£
00:48:13	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_..." with ğŸ¤£
00:48:22	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

yes but those two would robably closest to compeating for headliner, so why not?
00:48:34	Soubhik:	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_..." with ğŸ¤£
00:48:38	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "potentially same bre..."

yep having breakout call
00:49:16	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	No headliner does not mean nothing.  It means thereâ€™s room for more smaller EIPs. Many of these can have outsized impact to effort.
00:49:26	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "No headliner does no..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	right, so no headliner could enable:
faster fork
more non-headliner EIPs
00:49:41	Potuz:	Replying to "How long before were..."

For the record, I also think encrypted mempools have under thought issues, just didnâ€™t like the argument of â€œwhen they were proposedâ€ to dismiss them. If anything it seems to me that whatâ€™s wrong is trying to choose H headliners too early IMO
00:50:51	Justin Florentine (Besu):	There is an Encrypted Mempool working group call next Wed. Happy to go over LUCID there.
00:51:09	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "There is an Encrypte..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:15	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "There is an Encrypte..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:43	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "There is an Encrypteâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:51:47	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "Screenshot2026_02_26_154444.jpg"

I like this notion ğŸ˜„
00:51:50	Marius van der Wijden:	How much adoption do you expect to happen for frametxs? What are the problems with 7701 that this should fix?
00:51:54	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Screenshot2026_02_26_154444.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:52:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I personally would have a question about intention of frame txs. is this mostly for post-quantum? or is the idea to really move over the ecosystem to AA with this? what are the timeline expectations here?
00:52:04	Luis Bezzenberger:	Reacted to There is an Encrypte... with "ğŸ”¥"
00:52:06	Barnabas:	Replying to "Screenshot2026_02_26_154444.jpg"

@lightclient this is not how you sell me this pen ğŸ˜‚
00:52:13	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "@lightclient this is..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:16	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	How â€œin the weedsâ€ do we want to get with the questions?
00:52:21	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	From Besu side I do not think we can make a comittment today. Not everybody is on the call. Weâ€™ll definitely need a few days to decide between Frame Transactions and no headliner
00:52:22	lightclient:	Replying to "Screenshot2026_02_26_154444.jpg"

Iâ€™m not a salesman guys Iâ€™m sorry
00:52:24	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "@lightclient this is..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:29	lightclient:	Replying to "From Besu side I do ..."

Yeah thatâ€™s okay
00:52:36	lightclient:	Replying to "From Besu side I do ..."

I donâ€™t think we expect a decision
00:52:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "From Besu side I do ..."

right, that was my thinking for prefering a breakout call
00:52:44	Luis Bezzenberger:	Reacted to For the record, I al... with "ğŸ‘"
00:52:49	lightclient:	Reacted to "right, that was my t..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:53	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Reacted to "right, that was my t..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:54	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "From Besu side I do ..."

to allow such people not on the call today to ask questions as well
00:53:12	Dustin:	Replying to "I personally would..."

One of the appealing parts for me personally is exactly that it's not entirely this single-purpose EIP which adds complexity for precisely one purpose, but strikes a reasonable design point regarding functionality vs complexity for several Ethereum roadmap goals at once
00:53:23	felix (eest):	Reacted to "right, that was my..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	it seems to me like it will likely be a decision between frame txs and no headliner, with an outside chance for LUCID still
00:55:17	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7932 
Is another way to solve the signature problem while using ssz 
This design allows for all the ecc sigs with ml-dsa and nl-dsa or even hash based ones
00:55:54	Dragan Rakita:	Example of simpler solution: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/11355  (Done it today)
00:56:54	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "https://eips.ethereu..."

It has previous version that doesn't depend on SSZ, it was removed in this PR: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10754
00:57:26	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	also this https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/11330
00:57:39	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "also this https://gi..." with â•
00:58:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	having worked on AA myself as well (EIP-2938, was rejected by acd in 2020), it seems clear that frame txs are the correct general purpose approach to enshrined AA.

my questions are just around timing, whether to ship in H-Star (open to it!) or later.
00:58:08	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "also this https://gi..."

This is more for eip-7702 but point is there
00:58:43	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	The first line of 8141 reads â€œThis new transaction provides a native off-ramp from the elliptic curve based cryptographic system used to authenticate transactions today, to post-quantum (PQ) secure systems.â€ - based on what Matt is saying should it be moved off of the start?
00:58:56	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Replying to "The first line of 81..."

the motivation
00:59:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	well if transaction types are composible then that's a different thing
00:59:56	lightclient:	Reacted to "having worked on AA ..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:47	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Replying to "https://eips.ethereu..."

Yeah aware of that but im in favour of 7807 as the headliner so speaking on the tracks of that
Just shows how much better debt removal can actually be done with 7807(6406) ğŸ™‚
01:01:23	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "For the record, I ..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	current transaction types are kind of built with OO inheritance model, maybe we should just abandon this model and go with composability?
01:01:49	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "current transaction ..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:16	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "well if transaction ..."

Sharing it here https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/11355
01:02:32	Dustin:	One issue is current transaction types become combinatorial: characteristic A has 2 options (say, present or not present) and characteristic B has 3 options. then that's 6 tx types with current schema
01:02:36	Dustin:	it bloats quickly
01:02:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "From Besu side I do ..."

it might still be a good idea to have a breakout call, assuming we donâ€™t reach a decision today
01:03:06	lightclient:	Reacted to "it might still be a ..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "From Besu side I do ..."

might also be valuable to bring Vitalik on for that, my understanding is he was very actively involved in frame tx design
01:03:29	Jen:	Reacted to "it might still be a ..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:14	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	My subject is signature size and long term how itâ€™s going to be addressed
01:05:38	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "My subject is signat..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:12	lightclient:	We are working with the clear signing standard and if accepted, frame tx will be incorporated into it. Also this is no different than EIP-7702 allowing wallet developers to choose the smart account for users.
Clear signing: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7730
01:06:24	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "We are working with ..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:27	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Time to enshrine smart account implementation :p
01:08:29	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	EVM opcodes cannot handle Post-Quantum Cryptography.  No mattter what extensions are added.  RISC-V is a better solution, precompiles are the best.
01:08:37	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "My subject is signat..."

based on https://x.com/yq_acc/status/2026250003577209173  signature sizes grow 51x to 3,3GB/slot(!)
01:09:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	youâ€™d have up to 10 more mins
01:09:52	lightclient:	Replying to "My subject is signat..."

This is why frame tx elides the data for VERIFY frames -> in the future we want to be able to aggregate signatures in protocol so that only a single witness for all txs is required
01:10:34	Barnabas:	blobs can store the signatures
01:10:40	Barnabas:	nobody is using blobs anyways
01:10:49	Marius van der Wijden:	Whoooo ssz mention ğŸ™€
01:10:50	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "nobody is using blob..." with ğŸ˜…
01:10:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "nobody is using blob..." with ğŸ˜…
01:11:01	Justin Florentine (Besu):	drink?
01:11:07	Parithosh Jayanthi:	add ğŸ”¥
01:11:07	Barnabas:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ‹ï¸
01:11:12	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ˜‚
01:11:13	felipe:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ˜‚
01:11:30	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	And with a net-benificial use too!
01:11:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ‹ï¸
01:12:03	Dustin:	Reacted to "Whoooo ssz mention ..." with ğŸ”¥
01:12:03	felix (eest):	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ˜‚
01:12:21	nixo:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ˜‚
01:12:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	one benefit of headliners of course is that they are selected early, so there is significant room for spec iteration (like we did with ePBS and BALs)
01:12:30	lightclient:	Reacted to "one benefit of headl..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:45	Andy:	Reacted to "one benefit of hea..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:46	Andy:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ˜‚
01:12:48	Andy:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ‹
01:13:17	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "drink?" with ğŸ‹ï¸
01:13:47	Milos:	Reacted to "one benefit of hea..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:42	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Replying to "one benefit of headl..."

The down side is that we not really know to what we commit to. EIPs can become much more complex than initially assumed
01:14:58	Andy:	Reacted to "The down side is t..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:03	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "The down side is tha..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:05	felix (eest):	Reacted to "The down side is t..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "one benefit of headl..."

agreed
01:15:57	Dragan Rakita:	tbh, I am not convinced the frame tx is something that we should do
01:16:17	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Replying to "tbh, I am not convin..."

So is this a flat no from reth?
01:17:10	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	The blob wire transaction is different from the block tx, this is the kind of severability we need to see in the frame transaction
01:17:45	lightclient:	Replying to "The blob wire transa..."

Yep my mistake, youâ€™re right about that
01:17:55	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Moscas Equation (X+Y>Z) - account migration is the X part. Itâ€™s a problem.
01:18:31	lightclient:	Replying to "The blob wire transa..."

I think it is pretty easy to â€œremoveâ€ though since there isnâ€™t introspection of it
01:18:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I personally would be more happy to embrace frame txs if we also were serious about moving the ecosystem over to AA for real. not just use it as pq insurance.

letâ€™s make sure we have good standards for sponsored txs, batched txs, etc, all on top of AA. and then actually get all the dapps and all the wallets to add support for these, and on an attractive timeline, not â€œyearsâ€.

with that ambition, it would be my clear headliner favorite. as pq insurance only, a bit meh
01:19:04	lightclient:	Replying to "I personally would b..."

We are serious
01:19:25	Derek Chiang:	Reacted to "I personally would b..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	would be good if we could wrap up the segment
01:19:57	frangio:	Reacted to "I personally would..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:39	Fredrik:	We can also add Transaction assertions to it
01:22:06	Alex Forshtat:	Reacted to We can also add Tran... with "ğŸ‘"
01:22:15	Andy:	Reacted to "I personally would..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:35	Greg K | Lido:	I guess the "what problem are we solving" should be written precisely in the EIP. And then convince people that this is indeed a problem. 
 
Having core devs wondering "what problem are we solving?" shows the EIP is not ready for headliner inclusion imho
01:23:06	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Reacted to "I guess the "what pr..." with â•
01:23:16	Andy:	PQ private transactions at the app layer will take much longer to get adoption and it'll be more expensive to build
01:23:22	Andy:	Replying to "PQ private transac..."

There are +40 teams building private transfers at app leve;. Huge demand
01:23:33	Andy:	Replying to "PQ private transac..."

But PQ and cost is very tricky
01:23:35	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I guess the "what pr..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:39	lightclient:	Reacted to "PQ private transacti..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:47	Marius van der Wijden:	I think we should definitely look how this will/might be used by users
01:23:55	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "I think we should de..." with â•
01:23:58	frangio:	the goals have been clearly stated by vitalik in this document:
https://docs.fileverse.io/0xd961b83d3421bddec9d8966efabf13800617cfea/10#key=Z-XeQk6mE7uZX9Q2ZbqWkiniYi9IZ1oSbd_2vPFyt26S7Kf8gO_UHpLJ936--lp8
01:24:00	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I think we should de..." with â•
01:24:01	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to I think we should de... with "â•"
01:24:04	dionysuz.eth:	Reacted to "I think we should de..." with â•
01:24:25	Jen:	Reacted to "I think we should de..." with â•
01:24:31	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I think we should de..." with â•
01:24:50	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we should de..."

can we get a breakout call with wallets?dapps on?
01:24:50	lightclient:	Replying to "I think we should de..."

I think we have looked at it a lot
01:25:01	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to I think we have look... with "ğŸ‘"
01:25:25	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we should de..."

feels like without wallet devs being on a call with you saying that they would actually implement this would feel like another 7702 deadend
01:25:29	Andy:	Replying to "I think we should ..."

how does success look like?
01:25:51	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we should de..."

having metamask/rabby/other big wallets support it on day 0
01:25:55	Derek Chiang:	As someone who has been building/selling ERC-4337 commercial solutions, gas sponsorship, transaction batching, and permissions (session keys) have been the biggest use cases of AA, way more than â€œnew signature types.â€  So AA standards that only add new signature types but donâ€™t enable these other benefits are not worth considering, IMO
01:26:14	frangio:	Reacted to "As someone who has..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:16	Alex Forshtat:	Reacted to As someone who has b... with "ğŸ‘"
01:26:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to having metamask/rabb... with "ğŸ‘"
01:27:07	Andy:	Reacted to "having metamask/ra..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:15	Barnabas:	Reacted to "As someone who has b..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Can we get rid of old tx types with this at some point
01:27:25	lightclient:	Replying to "I think we should de..."

I donâ€™t think day 0 support is always realistic. More wallets continue to support everyday. I see rainbow wallet is finally supporting 7702. This stuff takes time because every company has different priorities. The mainnet priorities donâ€™t always match up with this. Many wallets already support smart accounts now thanks to 7702, so supporting 8141 is not a major lift at all
01:27:45	Barnabas:	Replying to "As someone who has b..."

Derek, which company you work for?
01:27:45	spencer:	Reacted to "Can we get rid of ..." with ğŸ”¥
01:27:47	frangio:	wallet_sendCalls
01:27:49	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Replying to "Can we get rid of ol..."

Not if we donâ€™t put authorizations in the frame tx
01:27:54	Derek Chiang:	Replying to "As someone who has b..."

ZeroDev
01:28:00	Andy:	Replying to "I think we should ..."

So 2/3 commitments from big wallets saying they'd implement this?
01:28:04	Andy:	Replying to "I think we should ..."

Seems sensible and attainable
01:28:08	Andy:	Reacted to "the goals have bee..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:34	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Can we get rid of ol..."

Maybe if we put the old tx's as  data  of the frame?
01:28:45	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "having metamask/rabb..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:56	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "Can we get rid of ..."

there are also solutions like the SETDELEGATE instruction
01:28:57	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "So 2/3 commitments f..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:59	lightclient:	Reacted to "As someone who has b..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:04	lightclient:	Reacted to "Can we get rid of ol..." with ğŸ”¥
01:29:16	Felix (Geth):	Reacted to "As someone who has..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:16	FLCL:	Replying to "Can we get rid of ol..."

It implies no more new tx types?
01:29:17	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "As someone who has b..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:18	Danno Ferrin - Tectonic.xyz:	Replying to "Can we get rid of ol..."

SETDELEGATE doesnâ€™t bind to user address, itâ€™s the contract address.  But perhaps a precompile to do it.
01:29:20	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "ZeroDev" with â¤ï¸
01:29:58	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "Can we get rid of ..."

we definitely think it should be done a VM operation instead of as a field on the transaction!
01:30:15	lightclient:	Letâ€™s make a decision now
01:30:21	lightclient:	LUCID is not going in the protocol
01:30:47	lightclient:	Letâ€™s just focus on frame vs. doing nothing
01:30:56	Andy:	Reacted to "Letâ€™s just focus ..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:01	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Letâ€™s just focus on ... with "ğŸ‘"
01:31:03	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "Can we get rid of ..."

@FLCL "no more new tx types" -- this is the dream :)
01:32:00	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "As someone who has b..."

Take is doing this natively is going to give better solution over complex general solution.
01:32:08	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "As someone who has b..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:10	FLCL:	How does frames + ssz sound
01:32:19	Greg K | Lido:	On the other hand, keeping LUCID alive, will give incentives continue working on it and flush out details over the next 2 weeks
01:32:43	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "As someone who has..."

do you have a link?
01:33:03	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we'll keep on working on it regardless
01:33:09	Barnabas:	lmao
01:33:15	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "lmao" with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:21	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "lmao" with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:22	Potuz:	Donâ€™t kill yourself Matt over this
01:33:38	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Replying to "How does frames + ss..."

Basically the nimbus stand summed up xd
01:33:39	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "lmao" with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:41	Anders Elowsson:	lol
01:33:44	felix (eest):	Replying to "Donâ€™t kill yourse..."

(in minecraft)
01:33:46	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "lmao" with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:47	lightclient:	2 more weeks I guess
01:33:54	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "(in minecraft)" with â›ï¸
01:33:58	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "How does frames + ..."

I'm ok with it!
01:34:13	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "we'll keep on work..."

Yep, I meant also people providing feedback etc
